# Phase III: Prototypes and User Testing

## Introduction

<!-- !!! Describe the general problem that the project is trying to
solve and the focus of this interval of work !!! -->

## Methods

Our team utilized **informal feedback** and **user tests** to
gather external insights into our designs.

The informal feedback first involved presenting a working product demonstration to an audience (n=35) of undergraduate software engineering students. During the demonstration, our software engineering team (n=6) executed key tasks within the app to highlight its different features. Following this showcase, our team asked the audience a single question to collect feedback.

Our software engineering and usability teams collaborated to determine which prompt question to present to the audience. Ultimately, we selected a question that would provide insights into the accessibility and layout of our user interface. Specifically, our software engineering team asked, "Does the placement of the search bar feel natural to you, or would you expect it somewhere else?" Our usability team would consider the answers to this question when refining our wireframes and prototypes.

Our team also conducted several user tests to receive both qualitative
and quantitative feedback from users regarding our user interface.
First, our team developed prototypes of our app that users could
interact with. Then, our team selected six (n=6) total participants
for our user tests. The user tests involved having one member of our team
moderate a 30-minute testing session with one of the participants. In
the sessions, our moderator provided the prototype to the participant
and assigned them several tasks to complete by interacting with the
prototype.

During the participant interactions, our moderator encouraged the
participant to voice their thoughts with every interaction. Our
moderator took notes of how the participant navigated our app and
summarized their thoughts. Following each task, our moderator asked
the participant to subjectively rate the difficulty of the task on a
scale from one to five to gather quantitative data about our
interface.

The actual procedure for the user tests involved more intricacies such
as confidentiality of participants. For full details regarding the
procedure of our user tests, see the [attached protocol
PDF](protocol.pdf).

<!-- !!! Describe research methods you used to discover new insights,
which explains the purpose of each. Provide enough detail that someone
would be able to faithfully reproduce your research. Only include
research methods in here, not design documents/techniques/artifacts
!!! -->

## Findings

<!-- !!! For each research method, detail each of the findings to
clarify new discoveries of users' needs !!! -->

## Conclusions

<!-- !!! Discoveries derived from the methods and their findings.
Interpret how the findings translate into new insights into UX design
recommendations. Describe those recommendations and how they should
shape future work. In this section, include the new design
recommendations based on the latest user insights. !!! -->

## Caveats

The limited diversity of audience members restricted the depth of our
informal feedback. We presented our demonstration and questions to a
classroom of undergraduate software engineering students with an
approximate average age of 20. As such, many respondents had
above-average technical ability. Because of this, their perception of
the user interface could differ from the perception from less
technologically-adept users.

The lack of demographic diversity in our participants also

<!-- !!! Considerations and/or limitations to the methods you chose
and the findings/conclusions drawn from them. In other words, give
warnings if there are limitations to your research such as not being
able to find enough users of a particular demographic, the methods not
being able to expose certain information, assumptions you made, etc.
!!! -->
